The Joe Rogan experience. So, uh, the kettlebell,
you bring this thing everywhere you.
Go. Literally ever. I do. I, I, uh, I lived overseas and I started it.
You know, I started it. I had a, um,
696 pound guy come to the farm, uh,
six years ago and he wanted to,
he wanted to help losing weight and I helped them, uh, over 18 months,
get down to 265 pounds. Wow.
And one of the methods I used to motivate him was I said, as you lose weight,
I'll carry weight.
And eventually I was carrying a hundred pound sandbag fast forward,
and we can get into it.
I moved overseas with my family and I tried to carry that a hundred pound
sandbag because I had made that commitment to them and they wouldn't let it
through TSA. So when I landed in, in Asia, I asked my wife,
I said, Hey, could you order a 20 count?
It's stupid that I'm carrying a sandbag. Can you order a 20 pound kettlebell?
I'll just carry a 20 pound around. So I'm not a complete fraud.
And she confused pounds with kilograms.
And I ended up with a 44 pounder and it just became my shtick, my thing.
So.
When you say you carry it everywhere, when you me go everywhere with it.
I go everywhere with it. So what were you doing over there?
Why were you there for a year? So, um, after I helped that, that, uh,
guy lose that weight, uh, how did.
You do that? By the way he lost a fortune, your pounds?
Uh, yeah. Close to it. So 18 months, that's amazing. It was amazing,
but you're not going to be, we may be at odds on this, but I went, um,
and I'll tell you why we went raw fruits and vegetables only. And, um,
here's a guy that was eating eight,
eight egg McMuffins a day for breakfast and two, two liter sprites.
Right. So he gets the balloons to 696 pounds.
How long did it take him to get that big, to get back to no, as big as he was.
Um, he, you know, when he, when he, yeah, when he.
Left, he said he was crying. He said to me,
it was a first time as far as I can remember where I fit in one airplane seat.
Oh. So this was, this was over a long period of time, but he, um,
we did raw fruits and vegetables. And then we did it.
We started with a 10 mile hike every day, 10 miles every day, every day.
And then, and then it went to 20, she went to 10 in the morning, 10 at night,
raw fruits and vegetables.
And we got to a point where he was losing two to three pounds a day that.
10 And 10 is that is, that's a long hike. And a lot of time,
like how much time was that taken?
He gave up work. He worked for Comcast.
They were kind enough to say you're on leave. Um, I CA I covered the expenses,
which was like two stalks of celery and a glass of water every day.
There was not, you know, it wasn't much of an expense. And, um,
and he spent the whole day basically hiking.
So he hiked all day. And what kept them motivated,
just this idea that he was going to lose weight.
At the other end, I took his keys. I took his wallet and he had no plan. Like,
what was he going to do? How was he gonna get out? So he, where was this?
And we have a farm in Vermont. So we, we had them on lock and key.
How did you know this guy before this?
I got a phone call that somebody had just finished one of our Spartan events
that was extremely overweight and showed me the photo. And I said,
get in touch with this guy right away. This is our Jared, this is our subway,
uh, star. I want to say January. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Right. You remember?
So, so, um, got in touch with him and he, and he, and he said, game on. Wow.
That's amazing. It was amazing. So he completed the race at 600 pounds. He.
Was tricked, he was told that it was a, a 5k walk with, uh, so,
so normally that 5k Spartan would take,
let's say 90 minutes for the average person, he took seven hours. So, uh,
tricked into it, fought through. It probably would have never come back.
But then I found out about them, called him and said, Hey,
you're invited to the farm. I want to help you do that. We document it.
We actually, wow. So you didn't know this guy at all before this didn't know.
That's incredible.
So you just looked at it as, okay. This is a project.
Yeah. I, I tend to, um, I liked broken wingers.
So this guy, you find this guy he's 600 plus pounds.
You whittle them down to what'd you say 2 60, 2 65. He's a big fellow already.
Must be, right?
Yeah. You got to see that.
I probably could find the photo of the pants that he wore coming in
versus the pants he left with. I mean,
you could fit three people in the pair of pants.
How did you organize his diet?
So, so, um,
I didn't tell you when I was a kid on one hand was ravioli's granolas and guns.
On the other hand, my mom got into yoga, meditation, health, food. She was like,
Bohemian, crunchy. You were working for the mom. Your mom was a yoga. Yeah.
Yo had monks in the living room. Very embarrassing. So,
and the reason that happened was because her mom died of cancer and she walked
into a health food store to kind of figure things out.
This is like in the seventies,
it's probably one health food store in New York at the time.
There's no yoga journal.
People don't even know what a health food store is. Now. Let's just say health,
food store. They look at you like, what are you talking? Health food.
It was, it was incense burning. That's exactly right. So she walks in,
there happens to be an elderly Yogi that just landed in JFK from
India in the health food store. She strikes up a conversation with this.
Yogi changes our whole life, right. Comes home, throws away sausage peppers,
eggplant, parts, all out of the house. Wow.
Parents get divorced for obvious reasons.
He's going to go on a different direction.
And I am trying my best for the next 10 years to have my friends not come
over because I'm embarrassed. Right. There's like Indian pictures on the wall.
There's beads, there's chanting, there's monks, and I want to be a gangster.
And so, um, yeah, so, so anyway,
so she maybe through just repetition would,
would just instill this idea that, um, you gotta eat healthy.
You know, you got to get on real foods. We're going to go vegan, all the,
all the things that are somewhat popular now. And, uh, you gotta do,
and you got to sweat every day, cold showers way before Wim Hoff,
like she was into the cold showers. Oh my God.
This was like proper food combining, um, uh,
this idea of intermittent fasting. We were fat. My mom,
my mom fasted for 30 days. Okay. This is back in the seventies while meditating.
So, so, um, so anyway.
You were at home while she was doing that.
My grandfather, her,
her father had to come to the house and rip her out of the room.
Cause he thought she was gonna die.
Like she was getting thin and she sitting and meditating,
she was pretty extreme. And, and um,
and so I had to balance these two things like, like, and so, yeah,
I guess what I do now is, is, uh, a little tough guy, a little yoga,
I guess that's what it is, but this guy's diet. Yeah. So it came from my mom.
Right.
But you're dealing with a man who obviously has an extreme health condition.
He's morbidly obese.
Like how do you know how many calories to give him what's healthy, what's safe.
Like how, how do you know how to proceed there?
There's doctors listening. They're probably gonna, um, say that I'm crazy.
But, and then I'll answer the question more succinctly.
Mom introduced me to a guy named Dr. Fred beachy. You could look him up.
He's 92.
Now he decides 55 years ago that he's only going to eat raw fruits and
vegetables. That's it. He there's an Italian guy that was a weightlifter.
He's only gonna eat raw fruits and veggies. And he's gonna,
he's gonna test on himself like a Guinea pig. Does it work? Or doesn't it work?
Is this the best diet or not? I'm just going to test it on myself. He says.
And what he finds is that it feels better. All the things that,
um, people agree or don't agree with. So, um,
I wasn't necessarily knowing that and meeting Dr. Beachy
and seeing my mom and her, I wasn't necessarily into like how many calories.
It was just like, if you eat good, healthy food, that's ultra processed food.
Um, you're not going to starve yourself, meet what you need.
You could eat 40 salads. I don't really care. It was my message to the guy. Um,
but you're not going to, you get tired of salad, right?
Once you're tired or salad, then you want the other thing.
Then you want to go to have a cookie. But if you could only eat salad,
you're never going to eat overeat salad.
So all he's eating is fruits and salads, fruits,
and fruits and veggies that says raw, everything, raw, everything we're on,
not cooked because, because the theory was, if you cook it, you kill it. And,
um, I don't know how many months into it we are,
but he's probably down to 350 pounds, 400 pounds. And he says to me,
I got to go to the doctor. And I said, what are you, what are you talking about?
I got to get my liver. Liver levels checked. You're not a doctor.
And I'm really worried. You got me on this ridiculous diet.
And I looked at him and I said, you stupid. I said,
you were eating eight egg McMuffins every day and drinking two,
two liters sprites.
How many times did you get your liver levels checked when you were doing that?
You're worried about eating fruits and vegetables that that's up your liver.
Anyway, I talked him out of it and, and he stuck it out. But we would have,
we would have battles like that. He was in agony, oh, pain, serious pain,
and.
Losing that much body when your body's probably freaking the out.
Like we can't do this. Think of sustainable.
This is like a 300. And this is a 720 degree turn for him from,
from what he was. Did.
You ever hear about that guy? Um, we, we brought it up a few times.
Was it in the sixties champion or the guy who'd he fasted for a whole year?
He did just vitamin drips and he was enormously obese and he just did vitamin
drips and fasted for a whole year.
But the crazy thing about it was he didn't get stretched out.
His body absorbed the skin. I mean,
maybe it's just his personal genetics. You know, like some women,
they get pregnant, they have massive stretch, marks other women,
they snap right back, like a rubber band. It's there's no rhyme or reason.
It seems to be genetic. But this man who was really fat,
he lost all this weight, but he lost it everywhere.
Like his skin came back normal sized.
He didn't have to have any of his skin removed.
I would, I would bet if it wasn't genetic and unique to him,
I've, I've done very long distance races where we had limited food.
And I've read about people that have been stuck at sea.
Let's say for 72 days and their teeth get extremely white and their
skin get, you know, if they're not getting sunburned gets beautiful. I think,
I think I'm speculating. I'm not a doctor.
Your body eats any excess. So I'm making that up.
I don't know if that's, that.
Might be it because, I mean, if you, if, obviously we're both morons, but yeah.
If you think about this guy's skin,
that's the thing that always happened. I mean,
I've had friends that lost a ton of weight and they would have these big flaps
of skin. He had it and they wanted to get it removed.
But this guy didn't this guy, um,
his whole body shrunk was this sub Dom D'Agostino T T told us
about this or was this someone.
I recall them, but I'm looking for pictures to see. I heard about it.
Yeah. I heard about.
It. That was the fascinating part of the story to me was a whoa, like this guy,
not only did he live off of his fat and Ivy vitamin drips,
that's what he took for a whole year. So you lived off of his fat,
his body had, you know, hundreds and hundreds of pounds of fat to lose.
He lost it all, but that his skin shrank was fascinating to me. I'm like, man,
if we could convince people to try that. Yeah. But, but again,
I don't know if that's the healthiest way to do it. I mean,
what kind of long-term damage you're doing, if any.
So I'm, I'm a believer again,
no scientific that I go back to like ancient times and I say to myself,
we never had an abundance of food.
You and I couldn't walk into a grocery store and have access to if we had food,
we had food. And so, um, I would think our stomachs,
uh, and our digestive system, uh, needs time.
It's not used to just constantly taking food on demand or wake up coffee
doughnut. Like I don't think our stomachs are made for that.
So I don't know about fasting for a whole year. That's a different right.
Also you have to get to that crazy state to be able to do that.
You've already abused your body to the point where you're hundreds and hundreds
of pounds overweight. I mean that that's not normal anyway.
That's tough one that doesn't even like you,
you want to go back to hunters and gatherers that wasn't even possible. No.
No. They wouldn't have been able to do that. I mean, uh,
and he was probably laying in a bed and probably not very active. Right?
Yeah. So this guy, you just say,
you're just going to eat as much salad as you want and as much fruit as you
want, but that's it, that's it.
And just by doing that and these long walks and how,
how long have these walks taken? You're doing 10 mile hike.
Well, in the, in the, in the, in the beginning, as you could imagine,
those were really long hikes, right. And, and probably, you know,
two miles an hour, so five hours to get that done.
But as he lost weight and he got more fit, he hustled and, and on the farm,
on our farm in Vermont, it's hilly. So I could either send them on, you know,
through the fields which we did in the beginning,
but eventually now he's climbing mountains too. And, um,
and then I started adding weight.
Now he's gotta carry it the little 10 pound sand bag and a 20 pound sand bag.
So, uh,
we just kept upping the ante as his body adapted to what we were doing to him.
Um, and he just kept boom kept taking off weight. Wow.
Yeah. And so after 18 months to let them have a case, no, they're not let.
Him have a cake, but I'll tell you what somebody heard about what I did.
And this guy shows up number two,
we'll call him and he's 300 pounds and he wants to get to 200. And I said,
all right, head up the mountain. You're going to sleep in the cabin.
Cause I just went through all that time with the other guy.
And we're going to be much more efficient here. First week,
you're only eating apples and a clean out your system.
I gave him giant bushel of apples, put them on top of the mountain. 30 days,
we had them down to 200 pounds. And what, 30 days, almost 100 pounds,
30 days that seems scary, scary hiking, raw fruits and vegetables. And,
um, here's a guy that was sedentary,
a truck driver and not really moving around much, uh, eating foods. I mean,
it's not rocket science, right? You eat food. You're not active.
You're gaining weight, uh, good food. You're very active. You lose weight. And,
and um, his girlfriend picks him up.
It's 30 days and they leave the farm unbeknownst to me and they go straight to
Ben and Jerry's, and he put on like 18 pounds in.
A day. Right. So.
I mean, there's psychological issues that I, that's not what I'm fixing. Um,
I'm doing the physical part.
Well, I got to think that a person willing to do 18 months.
Is that what you said with that gentleman hung in for awhile the 18 months?
Is this just psychologically?
You're building up some pretty spectacular endurance. Yeah.
Just fro raw fruits and vegetables for 18 months and hiking 20 hours a day.
I mean, you're putting some miles on your mind there. I mean, that's,
that's strengthening that,
that muscle of discipline in a way that he probably had never done in this one.
He.
Got tough. He, um,
he finished a big event with us was that was like the big moment for him at the
end. And, uh, gotten, uh, gotten a single seat in an airplane when he left,
got a girlfriend, like stuff, stuff started to come together for him.
So does he maintained? He.
Gained, he was at 2 65 at our best. And, and uh,
my latest understanding is it three 50? He bounced.
Back better than 6 96. Yeah. But.
A hundred leads to 200. What did he do differently?
Yeah. I mean,
you come off the raw fruits and veggies and you stop walking 20 miles a day,
but then you slip a cake in here and there. Right.
You gotta suck though.
Like you get them down to like this really amazing weight.
You got to see. I mean, what am I going to do?
I can't keep all these people on the.
Farm. Right? No, but still.
You get them there. And then they gotta, they gotta fly. They gotta do it.
Yeah. That sucks that you, you,
you got that far and then you see him put a hundred pounds.
How long did it take him to put a hundred pounds?
I'm sure it was a 90 a hundred days,
but they snap back. I mean, it's that pendulum swing, right? Like, oh my God,
I get regular food. Now I don't have to hike as much anymore. I mean,
I'm a believer. I don't know if you are. I'm a believer.
The number one motivator for human beings is the avoidance of discomfort. Right?
Because if we didn't avoid discomfort, we'd freeze in the snow.
We'd fall off a cliff. We'd get caught, right?
So we're always constantly even subconsciously avoiding discomfort.
And, uh, to be healthy, you gotta be uncomfortable. You gotta train,
you gotta eat healthy. Those are hard things go to bed early, not drink as much.
And so, um, unless somebody is holding you accountable or unless you're like,
obviously you're a high performer. I'm a bit of a maniac in that.
Like I'm more uncomfortable if I'm not, if I'm not optimal,
if I'm not being my best. Right? But most people that's not,
that's not the goal.
Well, you have to kind of make your mind into
your mind, has to seek discomfort.
It has to seek these difficult tasks. You have to enjoy it.
And you have to figure out a way to make your mind, enjoy those things.
And some people comes easy and some people, it doesn't. Some people,
some people, it takes a long time.
I always tell people the best thing you could ever do is force yourself to a
schedule. Just write it down today. I have to do an hour on the treadmill.
I have to do an hour, no matter what, even if you're walking on it,
what you're doing an hour on a treadmill the next time you do want to do it
just, okay,
you did an hour and this is the amount of miles you got in next time,
you're going to add three miles, put,
put an extra three miles in that one hour and just keep doing things like that.
Write down today, I'm going to do 100 pushups.
I'm going to do 100 sit-ups and I'm gonna do a hundred chin-ups that's today.
And then force yourself, force yourself to adhere to a schedule, make a Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, workout schedule, give yourself some time off, you know,
like don't, don't even crush yourself to the point where you can't do it,
make it so that you really appreciate those Tuesdays and Thursdays.
But on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, you're going to get after it.
And this is what you're going to do.
Most people just try to go work out and you're kind of aimless and you show up.
And like, when you pick up the jump rope and you drunk a little rope,
maybe hit the heavy bag a little bit. Maybe you do some curls,
but you don't really have an aim. You know?
And that's why people like to hire trainers because the trainer will tell you
what to do. Well, you can tell yourself what to do.
If you don't have money for a trainer, you don't even have to have equipment.
You know, with body weight, squats, sit ups, chin ups, pushups,
you can kick your.
You could give yourself a brutal full body, weight workout,
and you could find these for free on YouTube. There's a ton of them.
There's a ton of these body weight workouts you could do just force yourself,
write it down Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, I'm going to do a hundred pushups.
I'm going to do a hundred chin-ups I'm going to do a hundred sit-ups.
Even if it takes me all day,
even if I have to do 10 and 10 and 10 and keep going all day,
just that's what you do. Do 10 pushups. Take a break for 20 minutes.
Do another 10, but get those hundred in. Okay.